Copywrite: Watson Zhou

Website: https://github.com/WatsonZhouAnda/English-Test-Materialism

## 议论题

议论题模板：

With the rapid development and increasing popularity of …, many people claim that xxx. However, I beg to differ.

Firstly, xxx contributes greatly to A. 

Besides,  xxx plays the most irreplaceable role in B. 

Moreover, 

Therefore, It is such a pity to miss the powerful lessons they should learn from …(用在议论结尾，与首句观点形成正反呼应)

**<font color=chocolate>物质化</font>**

Should we try to change the tide of materialism?

Many people claim that materialism as a trend needs to be reversed. However, I beg to differ.

Firstly, materialism boosts the economy. Companies pull out all the stops to satisfy their customers’ needs, and thus more workers get employed and get paid. Designers, researchers, manufacturers, salesmen are all included. It’s a large-scale cooperation and competition. Materialism actually serves as a stimulus of the economy and society. **(经济)**

Besides, materialism contributes greatly to improving quality of lifestyle. In contrast to old times, there were no as much food as today and people even had to endure starvation. However, with the abundance in social substance and development of cutting-edge technologies, there will be more chances to live a better life. **(生活质量)**

To conclude, there is no need to make a change of the tide of materialism. 

**<font color=chocolate>商业农业中心</font>**

**Title:** 大学要建商业中心center for business research还是农业中心center for research in agriculture？

Many people claim that agriculture plays a more important role in our daily life. However, I beg to differ.

Firstly, with the advent of economic globalization, business research plays an irreplaceable role in boosting and optimizing the commercial trade. Only by building business research can we publish more reasonable laws or local regulations to boost the financial market more effectively and efficiently. **(经济)**

Besides, developing a center for business research contributes greatly to academic breakthroughs in the economic field and economic development. Business research center serves as a recruitment for talent acquisition and retainment which enables the academic growth. **(学术发展)**

In a word, I prefer to build business research rather than center for research in agriculture.

**<font color=chocolate>自己创业优缺点</font>**

**Title:** Describe the advantage or disadvantage of being self-employed: 

 When it comes to being self-employed, **the expertise and skills** one obtains in the university **can be put into practical use**, which **brings one a sense of achievement** easily. Also, when it comes to certain qualities such as courage, modesty, integrity, ambition and competitiveness which **are indispensable in the long run**, being self-employed is the most **effective and efficient** way to **realize these virtues**.  **(个人价值)**

However, as the saying goes “every coin has two sides,” there is mainly a disadvantage. Working in companies rather than being self-employed **enables people to** take advantage of those c**utting-edge technologies** and costly but **state-of-the-art equipment** which **serves as a creativity booster**. Being creative is indeed attractive and engaging, so people are unlikely to miss the opportunity to become more innovative and charming.  **(创造力)**

**<font color=chocolate>独自工作还是团队</font>**

Firstly, working with team really **does a significant role in** making friends and enhancing relationship between different people. Similar to playing the football or basketball, which requires teamwork to a high degree, working relies on cooperation in a wide range as well. I’m not an expert on everything, so we should cooperate with each other in **ensuring the development and eliminating the obstacles to projects** which **contributes greatly to** the bond between us. **(交朋友)**

Besides, working in companies **enables people to** take advantage of those c**utting-edge technologies** and costly but **state-of-the-art equipment** which **serves as a creativity booster**. Being creative is indeed attractive and engaging, so people are unlikely to miss the opportunity to become more innovative and charming. **(创造力)**

**<font color=chocolate>自己做重要的决定</font>**

Firstly, making decision with others enable you to avoid the local optimum decision. There are numerous interpretations of the cause and effect of an important event. Therefore, if you stick to your own minds, you will lose the opportunity to get a sense of more broadly view of the problem and then make the optimum decision. **(多观点)**

Besides, when it comes to a challenging work needed to be done cooperatively by a team in a company, there is no reason for us to make a decision alone. I’m not an expert on everything, so we should cooperate with each other in **ensuring the development and eliminating the obstacles to projects**. Only by making a significant decision with a team can we lead an effectively and efficiently project. (合作)

**<font color=chocolate>现代药的优缺点</font>**

**Title:** What are ads and dis of modern medicine: 副作用最小化 minimize the side effect when the medicine come into play

Firstly, when it comes the advantages of modern medicine, with the development of cutting edge technologies and state-of-the-art equipment, modern medicine plays an irreplaceable role in improving the medical level, with the target to minimize side effects when it comes to play.

However, as the saying goes, “one coin has two sides.” The major disadvantage of modern medicine relies on the costly expense both on time and money. The whole procedure for medicine production contains design, reserach, manufacture and sale. It’s a large-scale investment in money and time.

**<font color=chocolate>电脑</font>**

**Title:** Computer makes peoples life complex and stressful, do you agree or disagree.

**<font color=chocolate>网上购物的利弊</font>**

Nowadays, with the rapid development and increasing popularity of the information technology, shopping on-line has been a fashion, especially among the youngsters.

When it comes to the advantage of shopping online contributes greatly to convenience. There is no need to waste precious time to go from one shop to another to choose the commodities they like. This is especially desirable to the old, the sick and the busy people who cannot go to the shops in person. All they need to do is to sit in front of their computers and click the mouses. The commodities they order will be delivered to them promptly.

However, as the saying goes, “one coin has two sides.” The major disadvantage is that customers can’t see the goods or try them on personally. Sometimes, the real goods may not be the same as what they ordered online.

**<font color=chocolate>网上上课的利弊</font>**

Nowadays, with the rapid development and increasing popularity of the information technology, studying on-line has been a fashion, especially among the youngsters.

When it comes to the advantage of studying online, it contributes greatly to convenience. Students are allowed to take courses online whenever they want and wherever they are. It also provides a wide range of fields to learn from law and accounting to social science and engineering. 

However, as the saying goes, “one coin has two sides.” The major disadvantage is that online courses cannot cope with thousands of students that try to join discussions. 

**<font color=chocolate>法律</font>**

- 已有的法律
  - 不能开车打电话：illegal to do; convenience; respond or call wherever; being distracted; dangerous; reduce road accidents; save lives.
  - 义务教育：compulsory education; attend school up to certain age; expertise and skill; a sense of achievement; competitiveness; find a better job;
- 建议的法律
  - 保护环境s



## 扯家常

### 故事类六大语料

1. Describe an **object** (a gift, something you use etc.): mobile phone(扯到科技)
2. Describe a **person** (someone you admire, a family member etc.)：Adele/Father
3. Describe an **event** (a festival, celebration etc.)：birthday party/Chinese Spring Festival
4. Describe an **activity** (e.g. a hobby)：playing basketball
5. Describe a **place** (somewhere you visited, a holiday etc.)：Shanghai/
6. Describe your **favourite** (book/film/advertisement/website/TV/Show) : Adele/Titanic/Ted

### 1. 旅游类

**<font color=chocolate>外国人一天中国行</font>**

**Title:** (写作) A foreigner is visiting your country for just one day. What do you recommend that this visitor do or see on that day? Why? Give specific reasons for your answer. 

For a foreigner visiting China in just one day, my recommendation is to stay with my family to see what a typical Chinese day feels like **in an ordinary family.**

The day begins with a very **classic Chinese breakfast** prepared by my mother. This guest has **a wide range of tasty choices**: **steamed buns, wontons and dumplings, morning tea and dim sum**, just to name a few, all able to **be representative of a rich food culture** that has been lasting for a good thousands of years. After breakfast, the next stop is my father’s company, the headquarter of the **world-renowned** Huawei, a high-end and innovative smart-phone manufacturer. This is a good place to **get a glimpse of** why China is a **global leading player** in cutting-edge technologies. In the afternoon, a must-visit place is the local museum, where this friend can get a chance to experience Chinese culture and civilization at her prime. In the evening, I cannot think of any better place than a **delicately decorated Chinese massage clinic.** Here the **ancient Chinese herbal medicine** and **acupuncture techniques** can be **an optimal compensation for** such a long and busy day.

**<font color=chocolate>旅游-上海语料</font>**

**Title:** Describe a place you visited with your family. What did you like most? How could this place be improved for visitor.

**Title:**  (口语) Describe a city you have visited or would like to visit in the future

**Title:**  (口语) Describe a happy event of your life

The largest city in China is also its most cosmopolitan offering the visits a chance to experience the past, present and future all at once. The Huangpu River spilts Shanghai into two districts: Pudong and Puxi. The Pudong skyline looks like it was ripped from Jetsons, with the bulbous Oriental Pearl TV and Radio Tower looking a bit like a two headed lollipop. On the Puxi side, you can walk along the Bund riverside district to get a taste of old Shanghai.

Well, from my perspective, tourism contributes greatly to the local economy and increases the income of the local government

**<font color=chocolate>博物馆</font>**

**Title:** Most people visit new museums when they travel to new places. Why?

**Answer:** 

From my perspective, there are mainly two reasons that can explain tourists’ interest in visiting museum. 

**The first point lies in the fact that** museums are believed to be the beat place to appreciate the custom and culture of a local region or country. The present glory is reflected in natural beauty and urban developments like mountains, lakes and skyscrapers while the past glory can only be traced, touched and felt through the windows in museums, like history, culture, a lost lifestyle and so on.

**When it comes to the second point**, museums are usually free of charge, as they are largely funded by the government. Therefore, for travelers who have tight budget, museums can easily fit in with that budget.

**<font color=chocolate>待两周的国家</font>**

**Title:** Name a country that you want to spend two weeks there.

I would like to spend two weeks in Shanghai, China with my parents because Shanghai is the best place where my parents wish to visit the most.

xxx

### 2. 发明类

**<font color=chocolate>最重要的发明</font>**

**Title:** What is the most important invention or discovery made in the last 100 years? Give specific reasons for your answer. 

**Answer:**

From my perspective, nuclear technology **plays the most irreplaceable role** in all inventions the past century has ever seen.

 **When it comes to** industries and power plants, nuclear power provides constant supplies of energy that is **not only eco-friendly but also more efficient**, outperforming conventional fossil fuels like coal, natural gas and petroleum.  With low level of pollution and low risk of **triggering climate change**, nuclear reaction is now generating nearly 20% of the global electricity, and this proportion is still on a steady rise.

When nuclear technology is applied to weaponry, it **contributes greatly to maintaining the world peace** through **exerting a deterrent effect on** the global-scale wars. Due to its ultimate destructiveness, no country dares to launch a nuclear war, **bearing in mind** that none would be the winner from such a war, but that the whole human civilization would be **at stake**.

To conclude, I believe that nuclear technology **serves as the most indispensable** inventions in the world.

### 3. 个人经历

**<font color=chocolate>打扰</font>**

**Title:** Describe sth that bothers you.

Well, I think that maybe noise kind of disturbs me the most. 

For example, last night, I was doing my mountain piles of homework in the library. It was so quiet at the beginning. Suddenly, a phone rang, it was from a man on my right side. He started to speak really loud on the phone without going out of the library. I got interrupted by him, and I could not focus on my study any more. I think library is such a quiet and comfortable place that any phone should be forbidden. If he or she wants to talk, maybe they should go outside.

**<font color=chocolate>开心</font>**

**Title:** Describe a happy event of your life.

**My first memorable event was that** I made a travel with my parent in Shanghai after the college entrance examination when I was 18 years old. 

Well as you know, Shanghai is the largest city in China that offers the visits a chance to experience the past, present and future all at once. The Huangpu River spilts Shanghai into two districts: Pudong and Puxi. The Pudong skyline looks like it was ripped from Jetsons, with the bulbous Oriental Pearl TV and Radio Tower looking a bit like a two headed lollipop. On the Puxi side, you can walk along the Bund riverside district to get a taste of old Shanghai.

This experience made me really happy because it was the first time I traveled with my family.

**<font color=chocolate>愿望</font>**

**Title:** What is sth or experience that you wish you could have or do?

I wish I could make a travel with my parent in Shanghai after the college entrance examination.

xxx

Shanghai is such a beautiful place and I really want to travel with my parent in the future.

**<font color=chocolate>生日派对</font>**

**Title:** Explain how you organize a surprise birthday party.

From my perspective, there are several ways to organize a memorable birthday party. 

Firstly, I will choose one of my favorite restaurants to celebrate my friend’s birthday party. Next, I will adorn it with pictures and balloons. Then I will go to invite my other friends to this restaurant and hide them behind the counter. I will turn off all the lights and then drive to pick up my friend. On the way to the restaurant, I will tell him that we are going to eat out without mentioning the party. After we arrive, as soon as he opens the door, he will be surprised with cheering and flowers. That’s my plan for a surprising birthday party.

**<font color=chocolate>撒谎</font>**

**Title:** Describe a time you were tempted to lie. What did you want to lie about? And why?

That was the time that I planned to organize a surprise birthday party for my best friend. 

xxx

The lie is not a lie any more.

**<font color=chocolate>感恩</font>**

Title: Discuss sth you were thankful for recently. Why? How? Did you thank someone? Who?

Well, I was really thankful for my parents for what they have done during my preparing for the college entrance examination and in order to show my gratitude, I took my parents to travel in Shanghai after the examination because they have been dreaming to travel there for a long time.

xxx

This travel made my parents really happy and I think they deserve it.

**<font color=chocolate>注意力</font>**

**Title:** Name sth that you do to improve your concentration. How? and How would it improve people’s lives

From my perspective, find the most interesting aspects of the thing that someone does would help him or her focus on it. 

For example, recently I play LOL(League of Legends), a popular video game among my friends. I practiced my skill a lot. Firstly I tried to analyze the strengths and weaknesses of every character. Besides, I attempted to do research on game’s map and predict where my enemies would appear. I found it so fun and challenging. So I kept playing it for as long as 5 hours without even a rest. Similarly, I found that applying the mathematical principles to the real problem is as fun as playing video games which may help me improve my concentration. Therefore, I always get good results from my math exams.

**<font color=chocolate>父母支持</font>**

**Title:** Talk about a decision you have made which is supported by your parents, how?

Fortunately, my decisions have been always supported by my parents. Seven years ago, when I was graduated from the university, I decided to further my study in England. It was such a big decision in my life that I felt quite uncertain and anxious. At that time, my parents backed me up emotionally and financially. They believed that I can stand on my own feet and sort things out on campus and off campus. They gave me full trust, which makes me reasonably confident that even though it’s not going to be smooth sailing, but I will be able to figure it out. And more importantly, they also provide me with financial support. As a student who just graduated, I had no income and my deposit was obviously not sufficient for study abroad. So I can’t imagine how I can survive from mountain piles of homework and group projects, struggling to make ends meet at the same time.

In a word, I have been so lucky to be sailing along with tons of support from my family.

**<font color=chocolate>失败</font>**

**Title:** Describe a time when you failed to achieve your goal. How did you respond to the failure and what have you learned from it?

**Answer:** 

I could never forget that day in November one year ago, when I received a disheartening IELTS test result. I had prepared for about a month while I still failed my target score and my performance is a disaster.

I was so frustrated at first, keeping myself away from any social interactions for a couple of days. Yet, I knew that this could not get me anywhere, so I calmed myself down before trying to examine my failure. All the reason relies on not taking seriously during test and wasting my time on dating a girl that I just met on-line.

After pulling myself together, I focused my mind on the preparation again. In order to avoid the failure like this, I paid a personal IELTS tutor, who shaped my bad learning habits by teaching me how to make systematic learning plan.

**<font color=chocolate>压力</font>**

**Title:** Think about a time when you were able to stay claim in a stressful situation(like a car accident or doctor’s appointment). What was the situation? How did you handle it? 

**Answer:** 

I could never forget the trip in the tranquil village in India three years ago, where I managed to survive tremendous stress.

The story began on a sunny day when I got seriously sick due to food poisoning. I did not have any company that could help me as I traveled alone. For four successive days, I struggled against the terrible diarrhea with little food and only bottled water. Despite such an unexpected situation, I had to catch a train to Calcutta where I was supposed to register for a volunteer service. But what’s worse, I got on the wrong train only to find myself in a small rural area, where I could not found any foreigners around me, only few local residents who could hardly speak English. I got desperate both physically and mentally.

Under such circumstance, there was an inner voice repeatedly calling me to chill down, and I finally found the local police station, though it was never easy. Fortunately, they contacted the local hospital where I got proper treatment,  and they also managed to send me on the right train to Calcutta.

### 4. 健康

**<font color=chocolate>体育锻炼</font>**

**Title:** Some young children spend a lot of time practicing sports. Discuss the advantages and disadvantages.

Participating in regular physical activities is beneficial for young children in multiple dimensions. Firstly, physical sports which **stimulate the body's metabolism** during exercising **contribute greatly to** **physical and mental health** for young adolescents , resulting in more energetic and healthier than their peers. Besides, many sports like basketball and football which requires cooperation and  competition **enable** them to cultivate teamwork and communication skills.

However, as the saying goes, **one coin has two sides**. Practice in intense or excessive level may **have a huge negative effect on** the academic studies if those children are too into it. The major responsibility for those youngsters is study after all. 

In a word, I strongly suggest that regular physical sports are necessary for children in their prime while intense and excessive sports need more serious consideration.

### 5. 年代

**<font color=chocolate>电影比较</font>**

**Title:** What are difference between a kind of movies older people watch and contemporary movies.

From my perspective, there are several differences between the older movies and modern ones. 

Firstly, with the advent of cutting-edge technologies, special effects have played a huge part in modern film industry. The bright side of this is that actors no longer need to do some dangerous motion while the negative one is that the old time blood and sweat which used to make actors appreciated so much, now it’s gone. Besides, another difference lies in the length of the film. Now, shorter clips of film shows more popularity among people from all ages. Films that are more than 2 hours are losing fans.

**<font color=chocolate>老年人</font>**

**Title:** What kind of places and activities are appeal to old people, why?

From my perspective, museum is the place that attracts the old people most. 

Firstly, museums are believed to be the beat place to appreciate the custom and culture of a local region or country. The present glory is reflected in natural beauty and urban developments like mountains, lakes and skyscrapers while the past glory can only be traced, touched and felt through the windows in museums, like history, culture, a lost lifestyle and so on.

**When it comes to the second point**, museums are usually free of charge, as they are largely funded by the government. Therefore, there will be no additional economic burden for old people to visit museums.

### 6. 生活

**<font color=chocolate>衣橱衣服品牌</font>**

**Title:** Describe the inside of your closet, what do the contents say about your life?

There is basically only one brand of clothes in my closet. I am a fashionable person who like buying clothes in brand stores. My favorite brand is Supreme. It’s an American company and was founded in Manhattan New York in 1994. The brand means the highest and represents the hip hop culture. I have several T-shirts and trousers. The reason I like this brand is that, it’s in good quality. Secondly, I’m a huge fan of hip-hop culture. I feel pretty cool when I wear them.

**<font color=chocolate>衣橱添置</font>**

**Title:** What is one item you want to add to your closet in the next year and why?

I am a fashionable person who like buying clothes in brand stores. My favorite brand is Supreme. It’s an American company and was founded in Manhattan New York in 1994. Almost all of my clothes are from this brand. So, in the next year, I’d like to buy more T-shirts and trousers. 

The reason why I am really into this brand is that it’s in good quality. Besides, this brand means the highest and represents the hip hop culture. I’m a huge fan of hip-hop culture. I feel pretty cool when I wear them.

**<font color=chocolate>买车</font>**

Title: Talk about a vehicle that you would like to buy someday. What? Why? 

From my perspective, I’d like to buy Benz in the future. I’m a big fan of traveling and if I had a car on my own, I could travel to anywhere and drive my parents to Shanghai which is the best place they want to visit.

xxx

**<font color=chocolate>小时候调皮</font>**

**Title:** Describe a naughty thing you did when you were a child. How old? what trouble?

The naughties thing I’ve done when I was a child is when I was in junior high school. I drew on one of my classmates’ desk with my pen. She was so angry that she told the teacher what I did. The teacher punished me by writing down the principle of our school 20 times and cleaning the desk immediately. I actually don’t know why I did that . Maybe just want to get more attention from that girl. And I haven’t done that again since then.

**<font color=chocolate>白日梦</font>**

**Title:** why people daydream? what about? A problem? 

From my perspective, daydream means imaging something amazing but almost impossible. For example, picture oneself as billionaire, imagine oneself being chased by hot girls, or think about what one will do if he or she would succeed. As for the reason why people daydream, if someone has a tight schedule, he or she has no time to think about that kind of thing. Only those who are being laid-back, you know, have no urgent tasks to do are likely to daydream. I don’t think daydream is a problem. It takes time but on the other hand, it releases our stress and helps relax our body and mind. Being absorbed in the wonderful world that one pictures in his or her mind is such a calming and soothing thing to do .

**<font color=chocolate>除了钱人们为什么工作</font>**

**When it comes to** the reason why people need jobs, many people claim that it is because they need money. However, I beg to differ.

Firstly, job really **does a significant role in** making friends and enhancing relationship between different people. Similar to playing the football or basketball, which requires teamwork to a high degree, working relies on cooperation in a wide range as well. I’m not an expert on everything, so we should cooperate with each other in **ensuring the development and eliminating the obstacles to projects** which **contributes greatly to** the bond between us.

Besides, **the expertise and skills** one obtains in the university **can be put into practical use**, which **brings one a sense of achievement** easily. Also, when it comes to certain qualities such as courage, modesty, integrity, ambition and competitiveness which **are indispensable in the long run**, working is the most **effective and efficient** way to **realize these virtues**. 

Moreover, working in companies **enables people to** take advantage of those c**utting-edge technologies** and costly but **state-of-the-art equipment** which **serves as a creativity booster**. Being creative is indeed attractive and engaging, so people are unlikely to miss the opportunity to become more innovative and charming.

### 7. 科技

**<font color=chocolate>虚拟画廊</font>**

Title: Talk about a virtual gallery: advantages, who may be interested, your willing.

思路：围绕具体对象(学生)展开其优点

From my perspective, students would show more interest in virtual gallery. There are several reasons.

Firstly, virtual gallery enables students to visually see what they have learned in school and to get a more accurate sense of abstract concept. It’s so convenient for school to regularly organize this kind of on-line teaching. 

Besides, when it comes to protecting the historic artifacts, virtual gallery plays an irreplaceable role in it. With the advent of cutting edge technologies, there is no need to put all of the valuable exhibits in the real gallery which may increase the probability of damage.

As I have never experienced virtual gallery before, I would try visiting it first and then decide whether it is better than the real one.

### 8. 政府

**<font color=chocolate>关心残疾人</font>**

**Title:** Describe how cities assist disabled people. What kind of thins they can do and how to assist.

Most cities are utterly unfriendly to people with disabilities. It is the government’s responsibility to help disabled people to have a more comfortable life. There are many things the local government can do to support them.

For example, put ramps on the public transportation to prevent an accidental fall and make assisted-use toilets more available in shopping malls or bus stations. Governments should also encourage social inclusion and help the public to show more respect for people with disabilities. In the city where I am living, the government did a lot such as publishing relative laws and regulations to offer the disabled more special rights and providing special financial aid and job opportunities for them. Only lead by the government can we make the city a better place for disabled people.

**<font color=chocolate>对外国游客热情</font>**

**Title:** How to express hospitality

 for foreign visitors:  同样用关心残疾人

**<font color=chocolate>唤起公众健康意识</font>**

**Title:** Should the government raise public awareness of health and nutrition, why?

### 9. 历史

**<font color=chocolate>国家历史人物</font>**

**Title:** Describe a famous historical figure from your home country.

There are hundreds of great historical figures I admire in my country. I’d like to talk about Emperor Wu, the 7th Emperor of West Han Dynasty. His major historical feat is that he expelled Xiongnu, you know, the invader, conquered Guangdong and Guangxi Provinces. He also conquered Korea. Besides, he boosted the economy and popularized Confucius’s philosophy. He also set a government agency to collect music. But he also made some mistakes as he was a human. For example, some scholars argue that he spent too much on wars. Anyway, he is the historical figure I admire the most in my home country.

**<font color=chocolate>从旧物中学到的东西</font>**

With the development of cutting edge technologies, many items are no longer used as time goes by. The first item come to my mind is mail-box, which is rare in modern metropolitans. The existing mailbox is more likely used for decoration or the symbol of a city. 

Emails, an obviously more convenient and efficient way of communication, invented at 1970s, has become increasingly prevailing in recent decades. Before email replaced the traditional mails, people had to write letters with envelops and put them in the mailbox, waiting for postmen to deliver. Because of the long and complex procedures, it takes a long time to deliver a mail which may be annoying and some urgent news can not be passed in time. However, it suggests that handwritten letters can show people more sincerely and simple but genuine handwritten notes of appreciation can mean the world to people. 

The world is changing at wrap speed and there is still great value in being exposed to the diversity of ideas, traditional customs and experiences and this is what I have learned from the old items. 

**<font color=chocolate>传统习俗</font>**

**Title:** Describe the important tradition in your country. When participate, who, important to preserve it ?

 An important tradition in Chinese New Year is to give children the red pocket, namely the lucky money. Every year, when families gather together to celebrate the new year, kids usually receive red pockets from the elders in the family. It is a kind of good wishes for young children, such as to wish them healthy in the coming year and a prosperous life ahead. I like this tradition very much because every year until 20 I got to receive my red pockets too and it strengthened my family ties. To a high degree, I think it is vital to preserve traditions since they comprise of our traditional cultures as well as our personal narratives. Globalization greatly altered the role of some certain existed tradition, and thus speeded up the process of fading out, which decreases the investment in cultural diversity and dialogue for development. We should always maintain and nurture our own local customs, preventing them from being eclipsed by international customs. 

Good news is that my country is the one with an enormous wealth of cultural activity and living tradition and some certain customs is enjoying increasing popularity.

**<font color=chocolate>历史重要性</font>**

**Title:** Provide reasons that do you think the study of history is still important. 

From my perspective, learning history does play a significant role these days. 

Firstly, learning history **enrich people’s spiritual world** and **broaden their horizons**. The history is a treasure of culture, from which we **are allowed to** learn the **customs and cultures**. 

Besides, **knowing facts and thoughts** in history **contribute greatly to** **decision-making and critical-thinking** because there are **numerous interpretations of the cause and effect of a single historical event.** We have to judge whether this is right or wrong after our own thinking.

**Moreover, history records evolution. Only by perceiving the past can we project the trend into the future. Learning about the history of Auschwitz Concentration Camp can engage people in a critical reflection about the shared heritage of humanity, the roots of genocide, and the necessity to nurture peace and human rights to prevent such atrocities in the future.**

Therefore, it is such a pity to miss the powerful lessons that we should learn from the history.

**<font color=chocolate>历史建筑保护必要性</font>**

**Title:** Do you think that historical building should be preserved?

From my perspective, preserving the historical building does play a significant role these days. 

Firstly, historical building enrich people’s spiritual worlds and broaden their horizons. Historical building is a treasure of culture, from which we are allowed to learn the customs and cultures.

Besides, knowing facts and thoughts in historical building contributes greatly to the critical thinking and decision making. There are numerous interpretations of the historical stories of a single historical building. We have to judge whether this is right or wrong after our own thinking. 

Moreover, historical building records evolution. Only by perceiving the past can we project the trend into the future.

Therefore, it is such a pity to miss the powerful lessons that we should learn from the historical buildings.

**<font color=chocolate>古建筑</font>**

**Title:** Describe an old building that you like  

**Where**

- I'm going to describe a very **famous landmark** in New York: the Empire State Building. People might not think of it as an old building, but the Empire State Building was built in 1931, so I don't think it can be classed as new. It's located on Manhattan island and it's probably the most distinctive and recognisable building when you look at New York's skyline.

**What**

- As far as I know, the Empire State Building is an office building, but visitors can go up to an observation deck on the top floor, which is the 102nd floor. There's also a 360-degree observation area on the 86th floor. Apparently, the building makes more money from the sale of tickets to the observation floors than it does from office rentals. 

**Why**

- I think the Empire State Building is still one of **the most impressive skyscrapers** in the world. It's such an **iconic structure**, and it's amazing to think that it was built around 80 years ago. The best thing about the building is the viewing deck on the top floor, which offers **spectacular views** of the city; it's definitely **the best vantage point** in New York. I'd recommend anyone who visits the city to go there and experience the view  







### 10. 食物

**<font color=chocolate>喜爱的餐厅</font>**

My favorite restaurant is called Wang Kitchen, a Chongqing-cuisine restaurant . It is located 1 km away from my house in Peking. It serves various kinds of authentic food of my hometown such as hotpot, which is my favorite. It is nutritious and tasty, and also quite spicy of course. I can put everything I want into the pot such as lettuce, broccoli, mutton, beef and so on. Sometimes it is so hot to make my tears and nose running, which is a little bit embarrassing. It is, however, a perfect way for me to relieve pressure. Besides, it serves as my harbor when I am nostalgic because the hotpot reminds me of my hometown and my precious family time. When I was in hometown, my family and I always gathered together to enjoy the hotpot. While eating, we chewed the fat and shared the moments of in life. So going to the restaurant is a kind of cure for my homesickness in Peking and allows me to feel closely to my family, especially during the years of substantial ups and downs that almost wore me down.

**<font color=chocolate>最不想吃的食物</font>**

A food that I would never try again is Lo Hei, which is a Singaporean traditional food. Singaporeans always gather with their family members to eat Lo Hei during the Chinese Spring Festival to wish each other a prosperous new year. Lo Hei is made by mixing slices of several vegetables and pouring wired-taste sources on the top. Because of the taste containing sourness, saltiness, and sweetness, I really dislike Lo Hei and will not eat it again. However, if I were offered a lot of money, I am willing to eat it for one week since Lo Hei is pretty healthy. 

### 11. 教育

**<font color=chocolate>养娃</font>**

Title: If you have a children, what is one thing you would do differently from your parents? Why? How impact your children?

From my perspective, if I had a child, I would allow them to do what they want.

For example, if they want to learn to play instruments like guitar or violin, I would support them without any hesitation such as buying  a guitar or violin, finding some training classes and professional teachers. The reason why I do this is that my parents didn’t allow me to learn it when I was a little boy. So I suppose if my children can do their favorite thing with my support, they will lead a happier life and be more likely to face and overcome any obstacles on their way to success. Besides, they might become more self-discipline and get a sense of achievement more easily. 

**<font color=chocolate>溺爱</font>**

Title: Some parents spoil their children. How might a spoiled child behave when he or she becomes an adult.

From my perspective, children are not supposed to be spoiled, because they should understand that the society has rules, and not only themselves but others have needs as well. 

Spoiled children are normally lacking the respect to other people. They were raised to easily get almost everything they want. So when they grow up, they tend to put themselves before other people. But as an adult, cooperation is very important, we need to learn to be grateful. So I believe children should be self-disciplined so that they would know how to be considerate and when to compromise after they grew up.

**<font color=chocolate>送孩子礼物</font>**

From my perspective,  basketball is the best gift for children. 

Firstly, playing basketball which requires cooperation and competition to a high degree enable young children to cultivate the teamwork and communication skills.

Besides, playing physical sports which simulates the body’s metabolism contributes greatly to physical and mental health for young adolescents, resulting more energetic and healthier than their peers.

Moreover, when it comes to relieving our pressure, playing basketball serves as a fantastic escape from the moutain piles of homework and group projects.

**<font color=chocolate>必修外语</font>**

Title: Studying a foreign language is required in some schools. Good or bad? 

Language serves as bridge and dynamic force of cooperation. With any foreign students engage in, they need to learn the history, culture and custom of the people in order to navigate the language effectively and not offend anyone. Acquiring a foreign language in a required course is a perfect way to empower them to confront the challenges during the learning process. **(沟通)**

Besides, putting the foreign language into practical use is an efficient way of cultivating students’ learning ability and agility. They imitate the pronunciation and intonation, making connections to memorize the vocabulary, comparing the usage of similar words in different context and polishing their essays by learning from the classes.

Finally, drilling foreign language improves their ability to communicate effectively and persuasively. By enhancing the ability to communicate, they could supercharge the process of innovation that today relies on the connections between minds.

**<font color=chocolate>你学外语吗</font>**

**Title:** Will you learn other language in the future?

Yes, I will. There are mainly two reasons.

Firstly, language serves as bridge and dynamic force of cooperation. With any foreign students engage in, we need to learn the history, culture and custom of the people in order to navigate the language effectively and not offend anyone.

Besides, drilling foreign language improves our ability to communicate effectively and persuasively. By enhancing the ability to communicate, we could supercharge the process of innovation that today relies on the connections between minds.



**<font color=chocolate>学外语难吗</font>**

**Title:** Do you think it is difficult to learn a new language?

Many people claim that learing a new language is really easy. However, I beg to differ.

Learning a new language requires much efforts to grasp its grammatic structure and pronunciation. Like English, it is an easy language but it’s also a challenge. For basic pronunciation and sentence structure, it’s easy to master. While when it come to essay and writing, it’s really hard.

However, even though it’s never easy to learn a new language, it’s necessary for us to learn it. Drilling foreign language improves our ability to communicate more effectively and persuasively. By enhancing the ability to communicate, we can supercharge the process of innovation that today relies on the connections between minds.



**<font color=chocolate>讲座</font>**

**Title:** Describe an interesting talk you heard. Who gave the talk? What was the topic? Are you interested in learning more about this topic?

Recently, I have heard a talk given by a famous English professor. The talk was about the importance of learning a foreign language. The professor cleverly pointed out two reasons why we should learn a new foreign language.

Firstly, language serves as bridge and dynamic force of cooperation. With any foreign students engage in, we need to learn the history, culture and custom of the people in order to navigate the language effectively and not offend anyone.

Besides, drilling foreign language improves our ability to communicate effectively and persuasively. By enhancing the ability to communicate, we could supercharge the process of innovation that today relies on the connections between minds.

I am really interested in this talk and learned a lot from it.



### 12. 经济

**<font color=chocolate>计划开支</font>**

**Title:** talk about staying within a budget. Why important, who needs, do you have a personal budget.

From my perspective, budget plays an irreplaceable role in our daily life. 

Firstly, budgets contributes greatly to urgent accident. For example, if one of your friends or relatives happened to get hurt and need a surgery immediately, you would have to spend much money for the medication and medical care.

Besides, only by staying within a budget can we seize every opportunity to make money through some financial investments such as stock or bond.  

In a word, everyone needs a budget, even a billionaire. I have personal budget preparing for an organized life. 

### 13. 个人喜好

**<font color=chocolate>音乐家</font>**

**Title:** Talk about your favorite musician and style and how did you become a fan: 

Music contributes greatly to concentration and ensuring working efficiency. I am a big fan of Beyonce, and every time when I am listening to her voice, my worries seem to be thrown into the wind and my minds is refreshed in a minute.

**<font color=chocolate>玩游戏成败</font>**

**Title:** Playing a game is fun only when you win, do you agree or disagree?

Some people claim that playing a game is fun only when you win.However, I beg to differ.

Firstly, cooperation and competition far outweigh the winning. Specifically, it can strengthen the bond between us because failure itself and how to turn the tables would become a heated topics among us. Learning the lesson from the failures together by sharing experiences and novel ideas would empower us to play it tactfully and end up winning the games.

Besides, when it comes to relieving the pressure, playing games with my friends or others is a fantastic escape from mountain piles of homework and group projects.

Therefore, it is such a pity to miss the powerful lessons that we can learn from during games.

**<font color=chocolate>最近读的故事</font>**

Recently, I have read a pretty detailed and absorbing biography of Adele, who is my idol and my role model. Adele was studious and working hard, and she had to fly around the world to deliver concert tours. One day, she wore out and fell ill due to the hectic lifestyle and endless harassment but she did not want to let her fans down and worry about her. So she continued working. Adele was so successful that she stole the show in 2012, winning all six Grammy awards for which she was nominated in. I suppose the sense of responsibility and diligence played an indispensable role in her success.

**<font color=chocolate>电影，书，故事</font>**

**Title:** Describe a book or movie or TV show.

Recently, I watched a movie called Titanic. A remote-controlled TV cameras sneak its way inside, down the corridors and through doorway, showing us staterooms built for millionaires and inherited by marine creatures. These shot strike precisely the right note; the ship calls from its grave for its story to be told, and if the story is made of showbiz and hype, smoke and mirrors well so was the Titanic. She was “the largest moving work of man in all history,” a character boasts, neatly dismissing the Pyramids and the Great Wall. There is a shot of her, early in the film, sweeping majestically beneath the camera from bow to stern, nearly 900 feet long and “unsinkable,” it was claimed, until an iceberg made an irrefutable reply.

**<font color=chocolate>动物</font>**

One of my favorite animal is the panda, which is a kind of bear but a very cute and non-aggresive bear. The whole body of them is mainly black and white with cute fur.

I first saw a picture a panda in a biological textbook in the elementary school. The book says that this is our national treasure. I didn’t understand why the pandas were national treasures at first until I saw them in the zoo.

The panda’s cuteness lies in the gentle heart under its huge shape. I occasionally watch some videos of pandas online. When I see pandas holding the thighs of the breeder and not letting them to go, I really want to be that breeder. 

**<font color=chocolate>水果</font>**

My favourite fruits and vegetables are durians because all of them are not only full of nutritions but also delicious. Many people claim that durians smell badly. However, I beg to differ. I really enjoy the fragrance from the durians.

I eat fruit at home on a daily basis. I always buy several different types of fruits in the shopping mall at the weekends for my whole family.

It’s necessary for us to have fruits and vegetables everyday because you simply cannot find another food group that is as perfectly matched to our daily needs. There are various proteins, fibre and vitamin that cannot be found in other foods such as meat.

**<font color=chocolate>喜欢冬天</font>**

**Title:** Why do you think some people prefer cold weather to warm weather?

Well, From my perspective, there are mainly two reasons. 

**Firstly**, activities like snowball fights and skiing are seasonal and could only be enjoyed during winter. As such, people who favor these activities over those normally in summer, including swimming, would choose cold weather over warm weather. 

Besides, coldness can **wake people up** and enable them to **stay awake**. For example, almost all public places are equipped with air-conditioners in the belief that their citizens could stay awake when feeling cold. As such, some people prefer cold weather since they can stay conscious for a longer period every day, which enables them to obtain higher productivity. 

**<font color=chocolate>喜爱的电视</font>**

**What**

I **rarely** watch **traditional television channels** nowadays; I **much prefer** searching for interesting programmes or videos online. So, although it’s not a normal TV channel or programme, I’d like to talk about a website which I think is kind of a **modern version** of a TV channel. It’s called TED, which **stands for** ‘Technology, Entertainment, Design’, and it’s a great place to watch short talks and presentations about all sorts of interesting topics.

**When**

The good thing about the videos on TED is that I can watch them whenever I want. I have ted.com saved as one of my favourites on my laptop, and I **tend to visit** the website every few days to check whether there is anything new. I often watch TED videos on my phone while I’m travelling to work on the train.

**Why**

The reason I like watching online videos on TED is that I learn something new every time I watch one. The **tagline** for the TED website is ‘ideas worth spreading’, and this really **sums up the appeal** of the site for me. Instead of watching **meaningless soap operas and talk shows** on TV, I’d much rather spend 10 minutes watching someone talk about a **breakthrough in technology, science or healthcare**.  



### 14. 朋友

**<font color=chocolate>意外成为朋友</font>**

Title: Describe a person who accidentally became your friend. How did that happen?

I always had a bad sense of direction, so I lost my way after arriving at the university the first day. Then I randomly asked a pedestrian how to get to my dormitory. She kindly led me to the dorm and told me her name was Sally. She even helped me lift my baggage upstairs. Upon arriving on the 5th floor, we said goodbye to each other. 

However, while pushing my suitcase into my room, I accidentally found that Sally was sitting on her bed and she was actually my roommate! Throughout my university life, Sally was always my best friend because of our similar interests and thinking mode, and I really cherish our friendship.

## 写作核心句式

### 核心句式

- 原因：The reason why … is that
- 重要：It’s becoming increasingly important to do sth.
- 促进推动：A contribute greatly to B
- when it comes to 
- which serves as
- -ing enables/empower/allow people to do sth
- owing to the limited development of technology
- improve daily life and work
- be of great benefit to
- can be put into practical use
- bring one a sense of achievement
- realize virtues: courage, modesty, ambition, integrity and competitiveness
- be indispensable in the long run
- play an indispensable/irreplaceable role in sth 
- cutting-edge technologies and costly but state-of-the-art equipment which serves as a ()  booster.
- creative, charming, innovative, attractive, engaging
- only by doing sth can sb do…
- it is such a pity to miss the powerful lessons that 
- economic globalization is the irresistible trend of our time.
- No matter how(when/what/which/where) …, …
- It is such a pity to miss the powerful lessons they should learn from …(用在议论结尾，与首句观点形成正反呼应)

### 核心短语

- survive and thrive
- effectively and efficiently
- customs and cultures
- idol and role model (偶像和榜样)
- ability and agility
- physically and psychologically
- emotionally and financially

### 句子表达

- Pathbreaking business research leads to new tools and techniques, often in unpredictable and indirect ways.
- Leading media and service industries can **trace their success directly to fruits of** business research **grown in the fertile environments around the global research institutes.**

### 核心结构框架

- 表开头：
- 表因果承接：in this way
- 表并列：besides, Furthermore
- 表结尾：Therefore, in a word



### 句式-态度观点

- 政治上：
  - growing political and diplomatic clout, 
  - promote world harmony and sustainable development,  
  - promote international cooperation and relationship, 
- 经济上：
  - A is an effective way that contribute greatly to the growth of economy and avoidance of economic losses. 
  - (老龄化)They worry that, as the country ages and its population shrinks, health bills will soar, the pension system will go bust, villages will empty and there will be too few youngsters to care for the elderly.
- 文化上：
  - Culture symbols, 
  - This unique and time honored intellectual legacy, has instilled a strong sense of national confidence in the Chinese people, and nurtured a national spirit with patriotism at a very core.
- 环境上：
  - The global environment affects how societies prosper through its impact on international relations and domestic norms and policies.
  - climate getting warmer，effect of greenhouse

- 健康上： 
  - offer considerable health benefits
- 教育上：
  - 教育不平等：
    - accelerate the speed of achieving the UN's Millennium Development Goals by  making up for the scarce resources and enhancing the education quality of poor countries,where half of the nine-year-olds cannot read a simple word and three-quarters the enrolled children cannot read a simple sentence.

### 句式-专题

- 缓解老龄化：

- The key is to have enough people working to support those who no longer can. There are three ways to achieve this: persuade current workers to labour longer, encourage more women to enter the workforce and let in more immigrants.

- 城市化

- Urbanization is reported to have decreased the incidence of suicide at a global level according to the Economists. **Firstly**, leaving the village helps in another way. Because farming involves killing things, rural folk are likelier to have the means to kill themselves—guns, pesticides—to hand. **Moreover**, urbanization give people more freedom as the grip of tradition loosens. Accounts of those who attempt suicide, and of the relatives of those who succeed, suggest that many young Asian women were driven to despair by violent husbands and overbearing in-laws. As people move to cities, women have more choice about whom they marry or live with, making life more bearable.

- 科技：

  - 好的方面：

    - 教育：provide schools with software that children can use with minimal help from an adult, that adjusts itself to the child’s ability, that gets things right more often than the teachers do, that sends teachers prompts about what they are supposed to be teaching and that allows the authorities to check on whether the teacher is in the classroom. Last but not least,we should lay emphasize on the applicability of such software instead of simply dumping computers on schools in the hope that children will understand how to use them, a folly on which plenty of money would have been wasted.

  - 坏的方面：

    - 不够真实：Although the （robots/AI） are inexhaustible, they're void of decision-making and processing skills and cannot offer the emotional element given by a real people

    - 沉迷：

      While technology brings more and more convenience to people, it will also negatively affect people's living habits to a certain extent. For example, the original intention of mobile phone invention is to shorten the communication distance and strengthen the connection between people. However, since the beginning of the 21st century, the negative impact of mobile phones on people is growing. 

      The phenomenon of being unable to switch off or be parted from your phone, has even been given a name: nomophobia, now described as the “21st century disease”. Social media through smart phone use has been linked with depression, particularly among young people.